using an S lists pretty simple you want
to add or remove stuff get stuff
whatever you should use the methods that
are provided by the class however
technically the way Java syntax works
you can try and do weird stuff so for
example I can reach directly inside of
the object I could say hey you know what
L I'm not gonna use your method let's
say I'm gonna say take first next dot
next and set it equal to L dot first
next and I can basically do bizarre
things to my data structures that are
not intended or allowed by the methods
provided you might consider pausing and
guessing what's gonna happen to this
picture so what happens is this right
here ends up pointing back at itself and
we ruin the list this is not something
that an int list or an int list like
object should do shouldn't have an
infinite loop I guess this would be the
list that's like the number 10 and then
an infinite number of 15s and that's not
something we're really intended to
support with the methods provided so we
could leave a little note somewhere in
the file we could in comments do
something like it is incredibly
important
up here note please do not mess with
first all right could do something like
that and hope that other programs will
look at it but other programmers will
probably not and so instead Java
provides us with a feature where instead
of declaring a member of a class public
we can instead say private ok so I'll
just go in here and I'll say private
here and that does what I want to
accomplish now the nice thing is not
only is this self documenting but it's
also enforced by the compiler if I make
this private and then in another class I
do something like L dot first but next
next he goes out at first but next when
I try and compile that file I get back
that first half private access so what
the private keyword does is it prevents
code in other classes from using members
that is variables methods or
constructors it what private does is it
says you cannot use those from outside
the S list class now if I had a main
method down here
s list that did funny things like that
it would work fine because it's part of
the s list class but anybody outside
anybody not editing s list Java could
not access first now that's not 100%
true there is a funny feature in Java
known as reflection which allows you to
bypass these modifiers but you rarely
rarely use it and what this does is says
if you're a casual programmer this is
something you shouldn't mess with and
the compiler will stop you from doing it
so why do we do that what's the point of
restricting access other than the
implicit picture I presented so far well
the basic idea if we wanted to summarize
really the heart of private is to hide
implementation details from the users of
your class the user doesn't need to know
that we have a first variable they
shouldn't be messing with it so by
making it private it's a detail that we
the programmer of s list need but the
user does not so that's something that's
less for the user to understand they
don't have to know anything about what's
going on no to the head and they can
think of the s list class it's just a
magical black box they don't have to
know about the naked recursive data
structure inside likewise you're welcome
to change any private method or private
constructor or private variable that you
want right it's your own personal
implementation so if it's marked private
it's not something else someone's gonna
rely on so is an analogy in a car well
we have some public parts right we have
the pedals in the steering wheel we have
the idea that there's an accelerator
pedal and a brake pedal one should speed
me up one should slow me down the
steering wheel when I turn it that way I
should be turning that direction and
then there's a bunch of private details
to the car so you may have a fuel line
that is able to carry liquid fuel from
one part of the car to the other but
some cars don't have that right there is
no notion of fuel and just have a
battery an electric motor so those are
private details you can manipulate
however you want because the user does
not think about them they don't think oh
I need to worry about fuel injections
not on their menu now despite the term
access control people use that to refer
to the public private and so forth
future in Java it has nothing to do with
protection against people trying to do
bad stuff with your code
because if they have access to your
source code they could do whatever they
want so that's not what has to do it it
is instead simply oops and it is instead
simply a weight a signal to other
programmers you should not use this and
it's a soft restriction by the compiler
so you can't mess with it now there's
actually another side point I should
mention here that if you make something
public in Java the expectation is that
you will never ever remove it and what's
the same way that if you sit down on a
car that has no steering wheel you're
not gonna want to drive it I mean yes it
is technically possible there would be
some joystick that's just not what
people expect so in the case of Java
classes whenever you provide a public
method you're basically announcing to
the world that they will have access to
that method forever okay
so private of stuff you can mess with
that the user never needs to know about
public is something that should stay
true forever otherwise we break
backwards compatibility with other code
so that's one thing we could do is make
pieces of our class private so another
little argumentation we can do is
nesting a class so we think about this
in note class I accidentally closed the
file
possibly yet here it is so here's int
node so it is possible to take this away
and say end node really should not be
its own class like file it should be
that's on Java file that's really a
feature of an S list so in Java it's
pretty natural that you can just take a
class and move it inside of another
class declaration and if I could pile
this it'll work just fine
so you can move classes inside of other
classes this will be the boss and this
is now subordinate class so in Java the
term people use is nested class so this
is a nested class definition I made it
public but you can't actually also make
it private it is typical but not always
that what you'll do is put the nested
class definitions up top and everything
else below but you can do whatever you
want so typically I'll take this and
move it down here but it just depends on
the convention of the environment you're
working on so if you work for a company
that always puts the nested classes up
front do that
for a project team where you always put
at the end do that inset doesn't matter
what order um so why what's good about a
nested class will be useful whenever a
class here declaring doesn't stand on a
note when it on its own whenever it's
obvious that an int note is really just
something used by an S list and only s
missed right it's like its its
subordinate to the S list class in some
way now occasionally you will actually
want an external program to be able to
make instances of int nodes or directly
manipulate them in some way so I could
for example this would be very strange
behavior but I couldn't do something
like public int note get front node in
which case I really need the int node
class to be public so that someone is
actually able to make int nodes or have
references to them but if in this but in
a class like this where the user never
needs to even moba in node we can make
this private so in this way what this
says is that in nodes can never be made
by an external user so if we have s list
user you could not make an end node but
we're kind of splitting hairs this is
probably getting a little boring for a
video but the basic rule of thumb is if
nobody else ever needs an int node
reference make it frightened okay now to
go one level deeper and I don't want to
get too much into my new show of Java
but if it is the case that the nested
class so I said make this private if no
external class uses it nodes okay so
this is yet another thing like that
if the int node class never uses any
detail of the S list class of the nested
class never needs to look out you can
add the word static here now that
probably seems like this word static
pops up on a lot of strange places I'm
not gonna go into right now why they
decided to use the word static but you
could imagine this set this keyword
could be never looks outwards okay it's
not it's static and what that means is
that the endowed class like I could not
write a method here that uses first that
would not be allowed okay so since this
int node class if you look at it right
as its own item its own next constructor
but never does it try and use any of s
lists stuff none of its methods none of
its constructors none of its variables
so we can make it static now what good
is that well it gives you a tiny little
bit of memory savings for each node and
you can look in the book for a little
more details on that but the basic idea
is simply that a nested class which is
static cannot access any of the outer
classes stuff okay now I'm sure that I
pushed you to the limit of the amount of
syntax you can fit in your brain without
any practice so don't fret this too much
this is something you'll get a chance to
explore a little bit in project one and
at the risk of making this lecture even
a little more boring and a little more
minut I will make the very minor note
that whenever you make a nested class
private these access modifiers no longer
really matter but not an important job
of detail so those are a couple more
improvements we could basically make to
our s list class we can make this class
a private static nested class and we can
make it B first variable right